Abbott Laboratories (NYSE:
Credit Suisse Healthcare Conference
November 11, 2014 13:00 ET
Executives
\n', b'
Tom Freyman - EVP, Finance & CFO
Analysts
\n', b'
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
Good morning. My name is Bruce Nuddell. I\'m the Med Tech analyst for Credit Suisse. It\'s my great pleasure to introduce Tom Freyman, Executive VP of Finance and CFO of Abbott. And joining us is Brian Yoor of Investor Relations.
Tom Freyman
Thank you, Bruce and good morning everyone. Today I\'m going to provide an overview of Abbott, beginning with a review of our third quarter results. Then I\'ll summarize broadly our identify as a durable growth and income investment and provide an update on each of our businesses. So before we begin, please take a moment to look at our forward-looking statement which is on the second slide of the presentation.
So I\'ll begin with a review of our strong third quarter performance which we reported last month. We\'re right on track with our expectations that we had communicated back in January. Operational sale growth has improved sequentially each quarter this year including 6.7% operational sales growth in the third quarter. This includes 15% operational sales growth in emerging markets which represent nearly 50% of Abbott\'s total sales. We also exceeded our third quarter adjusted earnings per share expectations and increased the midpoint of our full year adjusted EPS guidance range which will result in another year of double digit growth. And we\'re continuing to build Abbott for durable growth over the long term.
In our established pharmaceuticals business, we completed the acquisition of CFR in the third quarter and we\'re on track for our first quarter 2015 close on the sale of our developed markets branded generics business to Mylan. We\'re advancing our pipeline as well. We recently launched our FreeStyle Libre next generation glucose monitor in Europe and presented new randomized clinical trial data on our bioabsorbable scaffold, Absorb. So that\'s a high level summary of our third quarter performance.
I\'ll now provide a broader overview of Abbott\'s investment identity which is to be a durable growth and income investment. Abbott is represented by a broad portfolio of leading businesses aligned with favorable long term healthcare trends, with a significant portion of sales in faster growing emerging geographies. We strive to deliver top tier growth as we work to expand our margins, generate strong cash flow and increase our return to shareholders.
So let me break that down further. We are broad and balanced, one of the largest diversified healthcare products companies in the industry comprised of four businesses; medical devices, a segment comprised of vascular, diabetes care and vision care technologies; established pharmaceuticals and emerging markets branded generics business, diagnostics which includes market leading systems and tests in almost every segment of the in vitro diagnostics market and nutrition which includes both adult and pediatric nutrition. Our businesses compete in large markets where we hold leadership positions.
In nutrition, which is a $28 billion global market, we\'re the worldwide leader in adult nutrition. We also hold leadership positions in pediatric nutrition across several geographies including the number one position in the U.S. In medical devices, we developed the world\'s first bioresorbable scaffold, Absorb and sell the world\'s only mitral valve repair device, MitraClip.
In vision care, we\'re number one in LASIK. We\'re number two in the $4 billion cataract surgery market where we\'ve been gaining share with new products and expansion initiatives. In our branded generics business, we hold the number one market position in India which is one of the fastest growing pharmaceutical markets in the world. Following the acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals, we now hold a top 10 position in Latin America and with our pending acquisition of Veropharm. Abbott is positioned to become a Top 5 branded generics company in Russia.
In the $27 billion in vitro diagnostics markets, we are number one globally in immunoassay diagnostics and blood screening and have a leading point of care bedside testing system. Our businesses are also aligned with favorable long term healthcare trends. These include improving socioeconomic conditions in emerging markets that are driving investments in healthcare. Over the next five years, emerging markets are expected to grow more than twice as fast as developed markets and healthcare spending in emerging markets is still very low as a percent of GDP\xc2\xa0representing a significant opportunity for expansion.
In addition, the global population is growing older where we\'re seeing an increase in age related chronic diseases. At the same time, this generation is living longer and has a desire to live more active, healthier lives. Abbott\'s geographic mix is well balanced with 70% of sales outside the United States and one of the largest emerging market revenue bases of any large cap healthcare company. Following the divestiture of our developed markets branded generics business to Mylan, nearly 50% of our sales will be generated in these high growth markets.
To align with our commercial opportunities, we\'re also shaping our manufacturing, R&D and distribution footprint to support and sustain our long term growth in these markets, as well as further diversify our cost base\xc2\xa0and half of our sales today are purchased directly by our customers and patients making Abbott one of the most consumer facing healthcare companies in the world.
Therefore it\'s more important than ever for Abbott to have a highly visible corporate brand identity and last month we initiated the launch of that new identity, as captured on this slide, with our brand line, Life. To the Fullest. It expresses what Abbott has always been about delivering the power of health to help people maximize their potential, building a well-recognized corporate brand is critical to stand apart from traditional healthcare companies, particularly among consumers who are increasingly making their own healthcare choices.
We are moving more global, we\'re more global today than we\'ve ever been. As we grow our presence in emerging markets, a strong identity will give us more access to decision makers and provide a competitive advantage with a more compelling value proposition and we\'re a more consumer facing company than ever before, twice as much as just two years ago and that has major implications for our business because consumers are playing a larger role in their healthcare decisions than in the past.
So it\'s important that Abbott becomes recognized as a healthcare leader around the world. We\'ve launched our new brand identity in Brazil, Indian and the U.S. and will launch it in additional markets over the coming months. Our nutrition business, as you would expect, is our most consumer facing business.
Let me provide a more detailed overview of each of our four major businesses starting with nutrition. We\'re a global leader with sales last year of $6.7 billion. Our nutrition product portfolio is uniquely balanced to cross geographies and product segments. More than 50% of our sales occur outside of the U.S. including 45% of sales in rapidly growing emerging markets. Our product portfolio spans a spectrum of life from newborn infants to older adults.
Our strategic priorities in nutrition include capturing share with new innovations, growing and shaping markets, expanding operating margin and investing both globally and locally to sustain our growth over the long term.
First R&D where we\'ve significantly improved our productivity, we are launching five times the number of products annually than we did just five years ago. We\'re able to rapidly develop new products or line extensions to participate in new and evolving market segments. This includes new infant formula products Similac QINTI and Eleva, that we recently launched into the premium segments of the Chinese market to further enhance our competitive position.
Our second priority is to grow and shape markets. This is particularly relevant for our leading adult nutrition business which represents 45% of our nutrition sales. We created this category 40 years ago with the launch of Ensure and have been innovating and expanding ever since. The world\'s population is aging and this demographic shift provides a strong tailwind to grow, shape and further penetrate the adult nutrition market.
Third, we\'re expanding our operating margin to fund investments in growth. Over the last several years our discipline and comprehensive focus on improving our margins has yielded impressive results. We improved operating margin in our nutrition business by nearly 300 basis points in 2013 and expect meaningful margin expansion again this year. And finally, we\'re building our nutrition business for sustainable growth by continuing to invest in our glob infrastructure including our supply chain. I would like to provide examples of this in two of our key long term growth markets China and India.
In China, earlier this year we announced a strategic alliance with Fonterra to develop a dairy farm hub to invest locally in China\'s milk supply. Fonterra is the world\'s largest dairy cooperative and has been a supplier to Abbott for many years. This strategic alliance builds on Fonterra\'s expertise in dairy nutrition and farming and Abbott\'s continued commitment to business development in China to ultimately help meet its growing demand for high quality dairy ingredients.
This alliance is the latest in a series of investments we\'ve made to build our local presence and capacities in China over the last decade which includes our R&D center in Shanghai and the mid-year opening of our nutrition manufacturing in Jiaxing. This new plant is one of the most technologically advanced nutrition plants in the world and will manufacture high quality nutrition products for Chinese consumers including Similac QINTI and last month in India we announced the opening of our third new manufacturing facility this year in nutrition.
This plant will source up to 80% of ingredients locally. It will work together with our new Indian R&D center to deliver innovations to address unmet health needs in pediatric and adult nutrition while also meeting specific local taste and preferences. A stronger footprint in our key geographies will allow us to be closer to the customers we need and work faster to create and customize new products for their needs.
Our medical devices business generated more than $5 billion in sales last year and includes our vascular, diabetes care and vision care businesses. In vascular, our growth strategy is to build on our global leadership positions to drive market adoption of new technologies. MitraClip, our breakthrough technology for the treatment of mitral regurgitation received improved reimbursement and national Medicare coverage in the third quarter in the U.S. which will help drive further adoption.
Supera is our uniquely designed peripheral stent for the superficial femoral artery or SFA, both our structural heart and endovascular businesses have been growing in the double digits globally. In September, we presented first randomized clinical trial results for Absorb, our bioresorbable vascular scaffold. We\'re making significant progress to bring Absorb to three major markets where it\'s not yet available, the U.S., Japan and China which represent more than 50% of the world\'s coronary stent market.
In diabetes care, our U.S. business is in a year of transition as a result of CMS competitive bidding, but our international business continues to grow driven by strength in emerging markets. We recently launched our next generation flash glucose monitor, FreeStyle Libre into the $4 billion blood glucose monitoring market in Europe. Libre eliminates routine finger pricks and finger prick calibration and reads glucose levels discretely through a sensor that can be worn on the back of the upper arm.
In vision care, strong sales performance has been driven by accelerating growth in our cataract lens business which represents nearly 70% of the total vision care sales. We continue to expand, capture market share with recently launched premium intraocular lenses and strong adoption of our new CATALYS laser cataract system. We\'re also collaborating in the U.S. with Carl Zeiss Meditec to provide surgeons a comprehensive portfolio of cataract products to maximize visual outcomes and streamline patient flow\xc2\xa0and last month we announced our entry into the fast growing electrophysiology market, enhancing and further diversifying our medical devices business.
In established pharmaceuticals, we have done a lot of work this year to reposition this business for growth in emerging geographies. We completed our acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals at the end of September which establishes Abbott as a Top 10 pharmaceutical company in Latin America.
CFR provides a scale and a product portfolio that strongly complements Abbott\'s presence in Latin America and more than doubles our branded generic sales in the region. CFR also brings a network of manufacturing plants and R&D facilities in Columbia, Chile, Peru and Argentina which further diversifies our cost base in emerging markets\xc2\xa0and most importantly.
CFR adds top talent with strong local market knowledge and a proven ability to quickly develop, manufacture and bring new products to market. We expect our announced acquisition of Veropharm to close by the end of the year. Veropharm positions Abbott to become a Top 5 branded generics company in Russia providing us with in-country manufacturing and a product portfolio well aligned to our therapeutic areas of focus.
We remain on track to divest our developed markets business to Mylan in the first quarter of next year. Mylan is well-positioned with its global scale and capacities to do well in this business over the long term and as we stated when we announced this divestiture in July, all else being equal. We would expect total Abbott sales and ongoing earnings growth rates to increase 100 basis points and more than 200 basis points respectively.
We saw evidence of that acceleration in our third quarter earnings performance, where we presented our results excluding the branded generics developed markets business. Following the close of these transactions, our established pharmaceuticals business will operate entirely in emerging geographies where the growth of braded generics is driven by favorable demographics including growing healthcare systems and a customer base that largely pays out of pocket for high quality trusted brands.
Moving forward, we would expect our branded generics business to generate sales growth in the upper single to double digits. And finally, diagnostics is one of our most durable growth businesses. In 2013, this business generated 4.5 billion in sales across three segments, core laboratory diagnostics, molecular and point of care.
Diagnostics has been growing at a mid to high single digit growth rate for the last several years, delivering growth of 6% in the third quarter. Our growth is in part a result of our commercial strategy to provide our customers with a full suite of best in class solutions to help them improve efficiencies. Our strength in this segment is supported by the quality of our systems and the performance of our highly sensitive tests.
Faster growing emerging markets such as China, Brazil and Russia represent another growth opportunity for this business. For example, China represents a nearly $2 billion market that\'s been growing at a high teens rate. We\'ve been growing faster than the market in China due to increasing demand for industry leading systems such as our architect platform.
Over the last five years, our discipline and relentless focus on improving our gross margins has yielded impressive results, exiting last year with industry leading operating margins for this segment of roughly 22%. Expanding our margins has enabled us to reinvest in R&D, the engine that will strengthen our leadership advantage and sustain our growth trajectory.
We\xe2\x80\x99ve multiple next generation systems that span the entire diagnostic segment in which we compete. These platforms have been designed from the ground up based on customer needs to improve and standardize laboratory operations including informatics to help labs manage vast quantities of data and to allow us to continue to drive growth in this business for many years to come.
So in summary, Abbott has a strong track record of delivering reliable and sustainable top tier growth. We\'ve always set the bar high and have delivered double digit ongoing EPS growth in six of the last seven years. To support top tier earnings growth, we are focused on accelerating our top line and continuing to expand margins in each of our divisions.
Abbott generates strong cash flow and we\xe2\x80\x99ve a balanced approach to capital allocation across dividends, M&A and share repurchases. We\'re active managers of our portfolio to shape it for growth and to do so with our shareholders in mind.
And with that, Bruce, I turn it over to you in our remaining time here for some Q&A.
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
Tom, clearly you made a bunch of moves in EPD and really configured it to match the investment identity that you were seeking; consumer oriented, emerging market thrust. I mean clearly that\'s the case in nutrition even diagnostic, strong presence in emerging markets. It\'s kind of the glue that holds hospitals together as it were. You could make the same case I guess for diabetes where it has a very strong emerging market presence and you\'ve shown also recently, with the Supera stent, with the AF [ph] acquisitions you\'re willing to put some money down on some technology that will secure you a developed marketplace at the table in medical devices. But it feels like generally speaking in medical devices, that the emerging market investment identity isn\'t quite as pronounced as yet. Might we expect that over time?
Tom Freyman
In medical devices?
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
Yes.
Tom Freyman
I absolutely -- I mean when you look at the procedure volumes for example in vascular, they are growing in emerging markets. What we\xe2\x80\x99ve found\xc2\xa0for example in our diagnostics business, for many, many years in some of the developing markets we felt like our technology did not fit the market, but as these economies have rapidly developed, income levels have risen and governments and frankly just the consumers that focus more and more on healthcare.
We found that the higher end technologies are actually well received in these markets and they need them to build up their systems further, that\'s been very pronounced in diagnostics where it\'s really our high end systems that are doing well in these markets, not systems that were designed for less developed areas.
And I think that\'s true in medical devices as well, for example, Absorb, one of our stronger markets which is our bioresorbable scaffold as you know, one of our stronger markets is India. So there are premium segments in each of these developed markets that are very well attuned to the higher end technologies that we bring to the market.
So the emerging economies for devices is absolutely a growth target. Initially it tends to be in the premium segments, but as the middle class grows and as disposable income increases, a lot of these technologies are used throughout the economy. So it\'s absolutely an element in medical devices and it\'s a key element of our growth strategy across every single business.
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
And just on that theme without getting granular, what you\'ve really shown in both EPD and in nutrition is a strong indigenous presence, where you\'ve built local manufacturing, R&D centers, to really have a pulse on the market. It helps in government relations where there are single player systems. Might we see you know, stuff like that in medical devices over time?
Tom Freyman
Well sure, I mean I think broadly for the company in medical devices and every one of our businesses. I mean the company has changed in terms of its geographic presence so much that we really had to take a step back and think about how do we serve the customers and the patients that we serve around the world. When I started with the company, we were 30% ex-U.S., 70% U.S., now we\'re exactly the reverse. And now with the divestiture of the EPD business, the developed markets business, we are 50% emerging markets and over time we probably have been a little too U.S. centric in terms of our support functions for all of these businesses and you\'re starting to see that change.
I mean as you mentioned, Bruce, we have research and nutrition in India. We have it in China. We have it based in Singapore, with CFR, a lot of the EPD work is going to be done in Latin America and in the developing world. And a lot of our support functions\xc2\xa0whether it is government affairs or some of our other finance support is going to be closer to our businesses.
It\'s got a couple of advantages. One is, being closer to the customers is always better, but it\'s also got a better matching of our costs with our revenues and with currencies and like that, that\xe2\x80\x99s an important thing for us strategically long term. So there are many benefits to shifting those support functions across every single business and it\'s what we frankly have to do given where we have grown and where our future opportunities are.
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
And on the last call vascular got a lot of attention and was clearly -- people weren\'t happy internally. There was a little disappointment. Apart from adding to the portfolio, is there a lot of blocking and tackling that can be done to just kind of get better execution in your view?
Tom Freyman
I would say a couple, three things related to that. I mean something that we didn\'t spend as much time talking about, but we\xe2\x80\x99ve to remember within our vascular business, endovascular had a very strong quarter. The Supera stent is a really good opportunity for us to become much more important in the periphery. The endovascular area is a relative -- an area of a lot of opportunity with a lot of unmet medical need where technology and further clinical work is going to bring more products.
So the endo space is a great opportunity. The mitral repair space, where really we\xe2\x80\x99ve the only product on the market, had very good growth, is a very good opportunity, and then obviously in DES which is where we did have a disappointing quarter relative to market share and we spent a fair amount of time talking about it. We absolutely have a technology play there that can change the game with Absorb, particularly as we bring it not only from Europe where it is today but also into the U.S., China and Japan as our clinical programs advance.
So yes, we absolutely have to focus on better execution and as Miles talked about on the call, we\'re very, very focused on doing that. But we do have a lot of plays in the portfolio right now to drive growth\xc2\xa0and we\'ve got Absorb ultimately that can really reposition us very, very well in that DES space to be the real winner in the market.
So there is a lot of good things going on. We are focused on execution, but also growth in a lot of the opportunity we have.
Bruce Nuddell - Credit Suisse
Well thanks so much. We\'re out of time and on to the breakout.
Tom Freyman
Thanks so much everyone.
Copyright policy: 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts, please contact us at: 
