Abbott Laboratories (NYSE:
Cowen & Company 35th Annual Health Care Conference Call
March 3, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Brian Yoor \xe2\x80\x93 Vice President-Investor Relations
Analysts
Chris Hamblett \xe2\x80\x93 Cowen and Company
Chris Hamblett
My pleasure to introduce the Abbott team here today, we have Brian Yoor, Vice President of Investor Relations, and we also will be having the head of international nutrition head Scott White, heading up international nutrition, he will be available for Q&A across the hall for the Q&A portion of the session. Abbott, think of fundamentals, they are pretty sounded in place and we think it\xe2\x80\x99s a pivotal year. Post the EPD divestiture, high growth profiles are intact, and we look forward to hearing more about the Abbott story from Brian today.
Brian Yoor
Okay, thank you, Chris. Good morning everyone. Before we begin, please take a moment to look at our forward-looking statement as noted on the second slide here. Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s investment identity is one of durable growth and income. We\xe2\x80\x99re one of the most globalized healthcare companies with nearly 50% of our revenue coming from faster growing emerging geographies; and have a broad portfolio of leading businesses that are aligned with favorable long-term healthcare trends. This positions Abbott well to deliver durable and reliable long-term growth.
We strive to deliver top tier sales growth with steady margin expansions generating strong cash flow and increasing returns to shareholders. Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s portfolio is broad and balanced. One of the largest diversified healthcare product companies in the industry composed of four businesses. Medical devices, a segment comprised of vascular, diabetes care, and vision care technologies, establish pharmaceuticals in emerging markets brand and generics business; diagnostics, which includes market leading systems and test in almost every segment of the in-vitro diagnostics market, and nutrition which includes both adult and pediatric nutrition.
Our businesses compete in large markets where we hold leadership positions. The nutrition of $28 billion global market, we\xe2\x80\x99re the worldwide leader in adult nutrition. We also hold leadership positions in pediatric nutrition across several geographies, including the number one position in the United States. The medical devices, we develop the world\xe2\x80\x99s first Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold and sell the world\xe2\x80\x99s only mitral valve repair device, MitraClip.
In vision care, we are number one in LASIK; and number two in $4 billion cataract surgery market where we\xe2\x80\x99ve been gaining share with new products and expansion initiatives. In our branded generics pharmaceutical business, we hold top tier market positions in India, Russia, and several counties across the Latin America region.
In the $27 billion in-vitro diagnostics market, we are number one globally in amino-acid diagnostics and blood screening and have a leading point-of-care bedside testing platform. Our businesses are also aligned with favorable long-term healthcare trends. These include improving social economic conditions in emerging markets that our driving investments in healthcare.
Over the next five years, the emerging markets are expected to grow more than twice as fast as developed markets and healthcare spend in emerging markets is still very low as a percentage of gross domestic product represent a significant opportunity for expansion.
In addition, the global population is growing older with the corresponding increase in age related chronic diseases. As people live longer there is a growing desire to live more active healthier lives. Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s geographic mix is well balanced with 70% of sales outside the United States and one of the largest emerging market revenue basis of any large care cap healthcare company, with nearly 50% of our sales generated in these higher growth geographies.
To align with our commercial opportunities we are also shaping our manufacturing, research and development, and distribution footprint to support and sustain our long term growth in these markets, as well as to further diversify our cost base. And half of our sales today are direct to our customers and patients making Abbott one of the most consumer facing healthcare companies in the world. Because of these fundamental changes in the composition of our customer base, it\xe2\x80\x99s important now more than ever for Abbott to have a highly visible corporate brand identity.
Last year, we initiated the launch of that new identity life to the fullest. This expresses what Abbott has always been about, delivering the power of health to help people live their best possible lives. Building a well recognized corporate brand among all key stakeholders is critical to stand apart from traditional healthcare company, particularly among consumers in emerging markets who are increasingly making their own healthcare decisions.
As we grow our presence in emerging markets, a strong identity will give us more access to and influence with key stakeholders across the spectrum of healthcare, including governments, hospitals, physicians, pharmacists, and now more than ever consumers. We are focused on operationalizing our brands through investments in emerging markets. For example, since 2009, we\xe2\x80\x99ve invested nearly $5 billion in the Asia-Pacific region, including the acquisitions in capital investments and nearly one-third of Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s total employees now work in that region.
In China, we continue to expand our local presence, which now includes three manufacturing plants and two R&D centers. In Latin America last year, we significantly strengthened our presence and capabilities through the acquisition of CFR pharmaceuticals and we did serve us well in Russia through the acquisition of Veropharm.
It is through these types of actions, as well as our breadth and leadership across businesses and geographies and our alignment with the growth and healthcare that positions Abbott well to deliver top tier growth.
I will now discuss each of our businesses in a bit more detail. We are a global leader in nutrition, but the product portfolio that is uniquely balanced across geographies and product segments. More than 50% of our nutritional sales occur outside of the United States, including 45% of sales in rapidly growing emerging markets.
Our product portfolio expands with spectrum of life from new born infants to older adults. Our strategic priorities in nutrition include capturing share with new innovations, growing and shaping markets, expanding operating margins and investing both globally and locally to sustain our growth over the long-term. First, in research and development, we are rapidly developing new products and line extensions to participate a new evolving market segments. This includes new infant formula products like Similac QINTI and Eleva that we recently launched into premium segments of the Chinese market to further enhance our competitive position.
Our second priority is to grow and shape markets. This is particularly relevant for our leading adult nutrition business which represents 45% of our nutrition sales. We launched our market leading Ensure brand 40 years ago and have been innovating and expanding ever since. The world\xe2\x80\x99s population is aging and this demographic shift provides a strong tailwind to grow, shape and further penetrate the adult nutrition market.
Third, we are expanding our operating margin to fund investments and growth. Over the last several years, our disciplined and comprehensive focus on improving our margins has yielded in collective results. We improved operating margin in our nutrition business by nearly 800 basis points over the past three years. And finally, we are building our nutrition business for sustainable growth by continuing to invest in our global infrastructure including our supply chain.
We recently opened R&D centers and manufacturing plants in both China and India, and also recently announced a strategic alliance with Quanterra to develop a dairy farm hub to invest locally in China\xe2\x80\x99s milk supply. This strategic alliance builds on Quanterra\xe2\x80\x99s expertise in dairy nutrition and farming and Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s continued commitment to business development in China to ultimately help meet its growing demand for high quality nutrition products. A stronger footprint in our key geographies allows us to be closer to our customers and to work faster to create and customize new products for their needs.
Our medical device business includes our vascular, diabetes care and vision care businesses. In vascular, our growth strategy is to build on our global leadership positions to drive market adoption in new technologies. MitraClip, our breakthrough technology for the treatment of mitral regurgitation received improved reimbursement, a national medicare coverage in the third quarter of 2014 in the U.S. which will help drive further adoption.
We also recently acquired Supera, a uniquely designed stent for the superficial femoral artery to strengthen our endovascular product portfolio. In September of last year, we presented the first randomized clinical trial results for Absorb, a Bioresorbable Vascular Scaffold, and we are making progress on clinical trials in several other markets.
In diabetes care, our U.S. business went through a year of transition in 2014 as a result of CMS competitive bidding, but our international business continues to grow driven by strength in emerging markets. We recently launched our next generation flash glucose monitor, FreeStyle Libre, into the nearly $4 billion blood glucose monitoring market in Europe. Libre is a breakthrough technology that eliminates fingersticks and reads glucose levels discretely through essentially that can be worn on the back of the upper arm.
In vision care, our core area of focus is our cataract lens business which represents nearly 70% of total vision care sales. We continue to capture market share with recently launched premium lenses and strong adoption of our new catalyst laser cataract system. We are also collaborating in the U.S. with [indiscernible] fact to provide surgeons a comprehensive portfolio of cataract products to maximize visual outcomes and streamline patient flow. In late last year, we announced our entry into the fast growing electro physiology market enhancing and further diversifying our medical device business.
Our diagnostics business is one of our most durable growth businesses. This business generates sales across three segments, core laboratory, molecular and point-of-care diagnostics. It has been growing at a mid-to-high single digit rate for the last several years. Our growth is in part is result of our commercial strategy to provide our customers with a full suite of best-in-class solutions to help them improve efficiency.
Our strength in this segment is supported by the quality of our systems, strong commercial execution and the performance of our highly sensitive tests. Faster growing emerging markets continue to represent a significant long-term growth opportunity. For example, China represents a nearly $2 billion market that\xe2\x80\x99s been growing at a high teens rate. We\xe2\x80\x99ve been growing faster than the market in China due to increasing demand for our industry leading systems such as our ARCHITECT platform.
Over the last five years, our discipline and relentless focus on improving our gross margin has yielded impressive results with operating margins as a percent of sales for this segment currently in the low 20s. Expanding our margins have enabled us to reinvest in research and development, the engine that will further strengthen our leadership advantage and sustain our strong growth trajectory. We have multiple next generation systems that span all of the diagnostic segments in which we compete. These platforms have been designed from a ground-up based on our customer\xe2\x80\x99s needs to improve and standardize laboratory operations. They include informatics to help lab as managed quantities of data and allow us to continue to drive growth in this business for many years to come.
And lastly, Established Pharmaceuticals or EPD where we\xe2\x80\x99ve recently taken a number of strategic steps that position this business for sustainable long-term growth. Including the acquisitions of CFR Pharmaceuticals and dairy farm and the sale of our developed markets business to Mylan. These strategic action helped us to build the portfolio, dozens of scale for EPD in emerging markets to be successful over the long-term.
Last September, we completed our acquisition of CFR Pharmaceuticals which establishes Abbott as the top ten pharmaceutical company in Latin America. CFR provides scale and a product portfolio that strongly complement Abbott\xe2\x80\x99s presence and more than doubled our branding generic sales in this region. CFR, also brings a network of manufacturing plants and R&D facilities in Columbia, Chile, Peru and Argentina which further diversifies our cost base in emerging markets. And most importantly, CFR adds top talent with strong local market knowledge and a proven ability to quickly develop, manufacture and bring new products to market.
Additionally, in December, we completed our acquisition of VeroPharm in Russia. This acquisition builds on nearly 40 years of Abbott presence and growth in Russia, and positions us to become a top five branded generics company in the country. VeroPharm brings a strong portfolio of products that is well aligned to our therapeutic areas focus while also adding products in the field of oncology. Abbott also established a manufacturing footprint in Russia to VeroPharm\xe2\x80\x99s production facilities which includes a new manufacturing facility currently under construction. Building a strong local presence in Russia, not only brings us closer to customers but also aligns with Russia\xe2\x80\x99s strategic intend to build out its pharmaceutical industry as part of the pharma 20/20 initiative.
And lastly just last week, we completed the sale of our developed markets and branded generics business to Mylan. Mylan is well positioned with its global scale and capabilities to do well with this business over the long-term. Our Established Pharmaceuticals business now operates entirely in emerging geographies while the growth of branded generics is driven by favorable demographics and growing healthcare systems. The branded generics business model is highly consumer facing in emerging markets while the vast majority of our products are paid for directly by patients.
Abbott holds top tier market positions in India, Russia and several countries across Latin America, and we continue to focus on strengthening our scale, infrastructure and capabilities in the markets we compete. We focus our efforts on the core therapeutic areas of gastroenterology, women\xe2\x80\x99s health, cardiometabolics, central nervous system, respiratory and influenza vaccine. Initially there is \xe2\x80\x93 we have market leading brands that are well recognized and trusted by physicians, pharmacists and patients. Our innovation process ensures that locally relevant new products are continuously added to the portfolio through internal development, cross registration of brands across geographies and local and regional acquisitions and in license.
In summary, Abbott has a strong track record of delivering reliable and sustainable top tier growth. We are focused on accelerating our top line and continue to expand margins in each of our divisions. Abbott takes a balanced approach to capital allocation through increasing dividends, M&A and share repurchases. And lastly, we are active managers of our portfolio to shape it for growth and we do so with a long-term interest of the shareholders in mind. Thank you.
[No Q&A session for this event]
Copyright policy: 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts, please contact us at: 
