Allstate Corporation (NYSE:
February 13, 2013  1:10 pm ET
Executives
Thomas J. Wilson - Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President, Chairman of Executive Committee, Member of Equity Award Committee, Chairman of The Allstate Insurance Company, Chief Executive Officer of The Allstate Insurance Company and President of The Allstate Insurance Company
Analysts
Alison Jacobowitz - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Michael Zaremski - Cr\xc3\xa9dit Suisse AG, Research Division
Alison Jacobowitz - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
Great, so next up is Allstate, another -- I think, another perennial speaker. I think you guys have been here almost as long as we have also. And we have Tom Wilson, Allstate CEO, presenting. He personally has an extensive history with the company. He has seen it through many evolutionary changes. And so now, I\'m very happy to turn the podium over to him so we can get a glimpse into where they see the company going over the next several years.
Thomas J. Wilson
Thank you, Alison. I\'ve always been impressed by the depth of your knowledge of us. I didn\'t realize you had the history of us as well. Good afternoon. So I\'m joined by Bob Block, who\'s on my far left, who\'s our Senior Vice President of Investor Relations; and Steve Shebik, our Chief Financial Officer, who\'s to my immediate left. Our goal is to help you understand Allstate\'s strategy and the proactive approach we take to creating shareholder value.
So first, let me give you a message from our lawyers. It says that I\'ll be making some forward-looking statements, and there\'s all kinds of information in our SEC filings and our website to help you look at the potential risks of investing in Allstate.
So let\'s just move on to Allstate, specifically -- okay, I need the message from the lawyers, I suppose. So Allstate represents a unique investment opportunity. Last year, our shareholders had a total return of 50%, and we still trade at a book value multiple that\'s substantially below the long-term average. We have a strategy that will enable us to fully leverage our insurance expertise, our brands and the proactive approach we have to investing and dealing with the world as it comes our way.
So our consumer-focused strategy is depicted visually at the top of this slide, which -- what it does is it breaks down the consumer insurance market based on preferences for the type of interaction and then their beliefs about insurance companies, so let me just walk you through that. On the left-hand side are consumers who have preferred to get local advice and assistance as it relates to their insurance needs. On the right-hand side are those customers who feel comfortable dealing with insurance on their own. On the bottom half are people who value insurance and see a difference between the various brands in the marketplace. On the top half are consumers that see little difference between insurance offerings, other than price, so they\'re really brand neutral.
So the Allstate brand is delivered by our local Allstate agencies, serves customers in the lower left-hand quadrant, which by our estimates makes up about 1/2 of the total consumer market. This is a place of historical strength for Allstate, and it\'s a significant portion of our overall franchise. And we compete primarily with State Farm, Nationwide, Farmers and the regional companies in that sector.
We acquired Esurance in the fourth quarter of 2011. They have a unique customer value proposition that -- for those customers who prefer self-service, but still want the value of a branded experience. While our market position is lower in this segment, we\'re growing rapidly. Units were up 31% in our first full year of ownership last year, and premiums are now over $1 billion. The largest companies in this segment, of course, are GEICO and Progressive Direct.
In the upper left are customers that want local advice but do not see a significant difference between insurance companies. They\'re served by independent agencies, of course, who offer products from a whole range of companies, including our Encompass offering, so we have plenty of room to grow our market share in this segment as well. And our major competitors up there are Liberty, Progressive, Travelers and Hartford.
With Answer Financial completing the picture in the upper right, we\'re the only insurance company that has unique offerings and business models for each segment of the market.
Now to help shareholders assess our progress in implementing this strategy, we established 4 priorities in 2012, which are shown on the bottom half of the slide: maintain auto profitability, raise returns in the homeowners annuity businesses, grow insurance premiums and proactively manage our investments and capital. We achieved all of those objectives in 2012, so the underlying combined ratio in the Allstate brand standard auto insurance, which excludes catastrophe losses and prior year reserve reestimates, improved to 94 as we successfully implemented profit improvement programs in New York and Florida and we had the benefit of a decline in frequency in auto accidents.
The Allstate brand homeowners business had an underlying combined ratio that improved to just over 65, which is really as a result of 5 years of hard work. It\'s started to pay off for us, and we also enjoyed the benefits of some good weather outside of catastrophe losses. In total, on a recorded business -- basis, this business went from an underwriting loss of $1.3 billion in 2011 to a profit of $718 million in 2012. That\'s a $2 billion swing.
Returns also improved in the fixed annuity as a result of good limited partnership returns, although that business is still going to continue to underperform given record low interest rates.
We also grew insurance premiums in total, reflecting the acquisition of Esurance. A unit growth in Esurance, Encompass and Emerging Businesses, along with higher average auto and home premiums in the Allstate brand, were the major drivers of premium growth in 2012.
The net return from the investment portfolio was 7.3% due to a number of proactive investment decisions, as well as, of course, the decline in interest rates helped that fixed income portfolio. And then we provided substantial cash returns to our shareholders through both dividends and share repurchases.
So these results are the outcome from strategically responding to a dramatic external change over the last decade. When you choose to invest in Allstate, you get a team that uses facts to face reality. We proactively make decisions to adapt. And then we execute to generate good returns for our shareholders.
So there have been 3 significant external events driving change at Allstate outside of that segmentation that I just talked about in the consumer market. So in 2004, there were 4 hurricanes in Florida. And in 2005, we had Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that hit the Gulf Coast, sort of ushering in a new era of severe hurricanes. In 2008, that increased severe weather started to extend into tornadoes, hailstorms, straight-line winds and wildfires, other smaller catastrophes. And at the same time, we entered the global financial crisis, of course, which is still with us today.
In response, we took on 5 initiatives to help us execute our strategy, focus on the customer, which are shown on the bottom of the slide, and we will walk through each one of those.
So if we start with delivering industry-leading auto margins, given that tumultuous external environment, we stayed focused on maintaining industry-leading auto margins, which are shown over the last 11 years on the bottom of this slide. So Allstate\'s performance is shown in blue, and lower is better. And as you can see, we\'ve been substantially below the industry average. We compare well with GEICO and Progressive, and we far exceed State Farm. So we\'re among the best in the industry at matching price with risk and then managing our loss cost.
On the right-hand side, our returns on capital of our auto business have been in the high-teens or low-20s, depending on the assumption of capital required to support the business.
In terms of the homeowners business, given the increase in hurricanes and the severe weather, we took action to lower our risk levels and raise returns in that line. Our exposure to hurricanes and earthquakes has declined by about 50% since 2005, as you can see by the right-hand -- by the red line on that left-hand side. And we\'ve achieved the goal we set up to reduce our exposure to that area. The yellow bars on the graph show the catastrophe loss impact on a combined ratio. As you can see by the large increase in natural losses, you can see why we took the action we did.
In addition, we set about raising prices, tightening underwriting standards, changing coverages and introducing new products. The outcome of these actions are shown on the right-hand graph, with total premiums growing but the number of risks declining significantly. So total homeowner policies have declined by 1.6 million since 2005. The average gross premium, on the other hand, went from just under $800 in 2005 to just over $1,100 in 2012.
The benefits of these actions are shown by the combined ratio results in 2012, where you can see that profit, excluding catastrophes, increased enough to offset another year of high catastrophe losses. For the Allstate brand homeowners, we recorded a combined ratio of 88 for the year, as you can see back on that left-hand chart.
Now maintaining auto profitability, improving returns in homeowners, protecting shareholder value from those external changes, it did have a negative impact on policy growth, however, and despite a substantial increase in the brokering of homeowner policies for other companies.
Let\'s go to the annuity business. The global financial crisis and subsequent record low interest rates brought on by central banks has lead us to a whole bunch of different strategies in Allstate Financial and the investment portfolio. Allstate Financial shifted its focus on to underwritten products and shifted away from spread-based products, such as annuities.
So in 2006, we sold our variable annuity business because we didn\'t like the competitive nature of that business. We thought people were giving product away. And then we started to downsize our fixed annuity business. You can see we\'ve continued to downsize that business, as you can see in the left. It\'s in the yellow on that chart.
The underwritten products generate operating returns in excess of our cost of capital and largely either support the Allstate Agency customer value proposition, that lower left-hand quadrant, or there are people who buy them through the worksite. We have a very successful worksite business.
In addition to reducing the size of that annuity business, though, we\'re also investing differently. So many of these liabilities have very long maturities, so we\'re shifting a portion of our investments into higher-return, less-liquid assets.
Proactively managing the investment portfolio has also enabled us to generate good shareholder returns. On the left bar, you can see that the real estate assets declined from $24 billion in 2008 to about $11 billion at the end of last year. Similarly, we didn\'t really like their risk and return portfolio on municipal debt, so we reduced our holdings from $24 billion to $12 billion. The risk and return characteristics of corporate credit, though, were attractive, so we shifted and increased our holdings from $37 billion to $51 billion, even as the assets declined due to our actions in the fixed annuities. As a result of lower interest rates and tighter corporate spreads, this portfolio has generated very attractive risk-adjusted returns.
Looking forward, we\'re taking action to reduce the impact that higher interest rates will have on the value of this portfolio. So about 2/3 of the portfolio backs Allstate Financial, and a lot which -- those liabilities are sort of masked economically with the investments, so they both change with interest rates.
The Property-Liability portfolio, however, is about $38 billion, and the economic value of its liabilities really don\'t change much with interest rates. So we\'ve been selling our long bonds in that portfolio. We expect to continue to do that this year, as you can see on the right-hand chart. This essentially pulls income forward as capital gains and takes it at the cost of lower investment income, which goes through operating earnings in the future.
The success we\'ve had in these 4 initiatives now gives us the ability to aggressively develop competitively differentiated value propositions. And the Allstate Agency business volumes declined last year as we continued to reduce the size of that homeowners business and took aggressive action in New York and Florida to improve auto profitability. We\'re focused on reducing the negative impact of those actions by raising customer loyalty, strengthening our agencies, expanding the auto risk targets and creating new and differentiated products, like our telematics offering, Drive Wise, we have a Claim Satisfaction Guarantee or our new House & Home product.
Esurance will grow by expanding its preferred auto business and broadening its product line beyond auto insurance. The marketing expertise, claims capabilities and buying power of our company are also supporting that growth, and as I mentioned earlier, unit growth in that business was 31% last year.
Encompass grew units by 5.6% last year by deepening relationships with the independent agencies and focusing on its packaged auto and home policy. We\'ll maintain that strategy to capture additional market share in that segment.
Our capital management is also a strength of Allstate, the results of which are shown on this slide. Since 2000, we\'ve returned over $19 billion to our shareholders through their dividends or share repurchases. Last week, we increased the quarterly dividend by 13.6% and added another $1 billion to our share repurchase authorization, bringing the total authorization to $2 billion.
We\'re also focused on further raising operating returns and equity to our long-term goal of 13%. We established this goal a couple of years ago, looking at the 10-year average, which you can see at the top of the graph, and we made 4 assumptions: First, that we would maintain auto margins, which we have. Secondly, that we could improve returns in the homeowners business, which we\'ve also made substantial progress on. While I don\'t think we are yet to our long-term goals on that line, the actions we\'ve taken are working, and we\'re confident in our ability to keep moving forward there. We also said we would raise returns on Allstate Financial and maintain investment income. Now low interest rates and our decision to reduce interest rate risk, both had a negative impact on operating income. And while that makes achieving our goal harder, they are smart economic choices, and those are the choices we make for our shareholders. So to achieve the target, we have a variety of other things we\'re working on, including reducing our cost structure, which you can see in our 2013 priorities. Expense management\'s always been part of our culture, but given the difficult economic climate, we\'re focusing on what customers really want to pay for, which can be different by segment.
So in summary, when you invest in Allstate, you own a fabulous personalized franchise with a competitively differentiated business strategy to meet the needs of each different customer segment. And we\'re focused on meeting those customers\' needs, and we are proactively executing on our 2013 priorities, which will drive value for our customers and shareholders. And as we achieve those goals, we\'ll generate significant capital, which we will leverage -- which will enable us to leverage our profitable market share growth, continue to return capital to shareholders and drive additional shareholder value. So we\'re excited about the future for our customers, our agency owners, our employees and our shareholders.
So I now will take any questions you have.
Unknown Analyst
Tom, my question is on top line growth in the Allstate brand. We\'re hearing from other auto insurance companies. They\'re complaining about their margins. They haven\'t been able to deal with the higher severity seemingly as well as you guys have been able to. It feels as if your competitive position should be improving in auto insurance. It also seems as if you\'ve been dealing with Florida and New York for quite a while now. You should be close to being profitable there. It feels as if you\'re on the cusp of a better growth within Allstate brand auto. Is that fair?
Thomas J. Wilson
Yes, I think that\'s fair. I would say, though, the challenge is how do you bend the line, right? So in our business, because we\'ve sold it a year in advance, it takes a while before you can turn the line. It\'s not like you put out a new iPhone and all of a sudden everybody comes and buys it. It takes you a while to get to retention rates. So you should start to see the decline get smaller, and then we should start growing again, both in auto and homeowner. But it\'ll take longer in homeowners than it will in auto.
Unknown Analyst
I was thinking more auto, though.
Thomas J. Wilson
Yes.
Unknown Analyst
And then while we\'re on the subject of growth, Encompass did see growth last year. Any reason that shouldn\'t continue?
Thomas J. Wilson
No, as I tell them, they still owe me about $500 million because that business, instead of being $1.1 billion, used to be $1.9 billion. Some of it, we had to get rid of because we didn\'t want to be in the homeowners business a bunch of places, and we\'re exiting the Florida market from both the auto and home standpoint in Encompass. But -- and we\'ve pretty much got most of that done, so the business should grow. Yes, we should be able to pick up share. There\'s no reason why our skills, capabilities, insurance expertise shouldn\'t enable us to grow in that business. We got a new management team about 1 year-plus ago, and it\'s made a huge difference.
Unknown Analyst
Given some of the developments that have happened in the annuity market, you guys -- any consideration to maybe selling the life business at any point? And how do you think about how that fits into your sort of product offering, especially as you look to grow some of the self-serve distribution channels?
Thomas J. Wilson
When you look at Allstate Financial, one thing you have to do is break it into 4 segments. So there\'s the Life Insurance business, which is largely sold through Allstate agencies. There\'s the worksite business, which is -- serves a couple of million customers, sold through the worksites that are biweekly, disability and some modest health programs. And then you have the annuity business, which we refer to as the fixed annuity business, deferred fixed annuities. And then you have the payout annuity business, which is long, dated, structured settlements. Those first 2 businesses have good returns in them and they fit with our strategy. So the returns in the Allstate life business are pretty good, and when you go down to that left quadrant, people -- customers in that left quadrant -- lower left quadrant like to buy all their stuff from as few people as possible. And it kind of makes sense, right, because if you\'re going to have a relationship and want some help, you don\'t want to have like 5 insurance people you talk to, you want like a few. So we -- that business has been way up in the last couple of years in terms of selling more of their products through our Allstate agencies as we seek to kind of change those agencies. That\'s working pretty well. The worksite business got great returns. We sell both through our agents, through independent agents who we sell direct. We got some very large companies we serve, and that\'s a really high-return business. The 2 bad businesses are the 2 annuity businesses. The one -- you\'re talking about some of the deals being made today are in the fixed annuity space, and that\'s -- those tend to be -- you\'ve maybe got like a 7- or 8-year duration on those assets and liabilities. We\'ve looked at deals. We\'ve looked at reinsurance. We\'ll continue to look at it as a way to try to improve our results and get money back out of that business. And if we can find something we think makes sense, we\'ll do it. We don\'t have to do it, though. We can care as we like. The payout annuity business is the lowest-returning business. Those liabilities can go out to 20 to 40 years, and we\'d rather not sell that business right now at the lowest point in interest rates. As interest rates move, that business turns better quickly, particularly from this low level. So we\'re looking at anything we can on the fixed annuity piece and to payout annuities. If somebody was to decide they would price in higher interest rates, maybe we\'d make a transaction, but nobody wants to.
Alison Jacobowitz - BofA Merrill Lynch, Research Division
I was wondering if you could give an update on your own -- I know I surprised you right there, didn\'t I -- your own agency channel, how the sentiment is regarding the comp. And maybe talk some -- we\'ve talked in the past about consolidation among your own agents, just how that\'s going, and how the sentiment is there.
Thomas J. Wilson
Okay. I can put up just a longitudinal perspective. So today, we have slightly over 9,000 agency owners and about 30,000 people who work in those local agencies who are licensed to sell product for us. And I look at both of those numbers, how many people we got who can actually pick up the phone and sell something and service customers and how many locations that they\'re in. That -- the first number, that the number of what I would call agency owners, some people call them agents, is down some in the last 3 or 4 years, and that was intentional on our part. The second number is not down as much, which is where you focus on delivering new value for your customers. The reason it\'s down is about 4 years ago, we said, if we\'re going to be more consumer-focused, we\'re going to have to help our agencies do a better job for their customers, so we\'re going to have to strengthen them, both individually and collectively. And individually means giving them the skills, capabilities, technology, resources not to be a human modem. And by a human modem, I mean somebody calls you, you punch in the information, you spit back a price. There is no future in being a human modem. There is a future, though, in giving people advice, understanding their family, understanding all of their insurance needs, and so we\'ve been working to try to do that individually. At the same time, collectively, there were some people who weren\'t going to get there individually. They just weren\'t going to be able to make the transition, and so we provided them a way to exit the company. And we\'ve lent the people who are staying over $300 million to buy those other agencies out, consolidating them and bring better skills and capabilities for those people. So we\'re working hard at doing that. We chose to do that at the time when we knew we weren\'t going to be growing very fast. I mean, when you go out to change your sales force, you don\'t want to do it when you\'ve got the hottest product and everybody\'s trying to get it. And we said, look, we know we\'re going have to fight through homeowners, we know we\'re going to have to maintain profit in auto, which even put pressure on the topline there. So let\'s change while we\'ve got some calm in the sort of volume and not have to give up future growth. We\'re pretty much through that now. I think we\'re -- we\'ve gotten -- we got the right team in place. We did put a new, Alison, as you mentioned, a new compensation program into place last year. People are used to it now. You see them acting according to it. And the goal, that was not a cost reduction effort. I think it got mis-spun by some people who are not our fans that it was a cost reduction effort. Actually, it\'s about getting paid for value. And if done right, our agencies ought to be able to make more money, but if they make more money, we\'ll be growing faster and we\'ll have happier customers, and that\'s what it\'s all about.
Unknown Analyst
I was wondering if you could just elaborate a little more on what kind of things you can do on the expense part of the strategic goals and how meaningful you think that might be to the expense ratio overtime?
Thomas J. Wilson
Well first, we look at the expense ratio in every channel separately. So the Allstate Agency, we look at its -- compare it to its competitors. We look at the Esurance one separately, and then Encompass separately. And so I\'ll talk about them each separately. So in -- I guess I would say, in all 3 of them, there is a way to -- we can simplify and take work out of the system, and that\'s everything from technology to processing steps. We have not put a number out that we\'ll prepare to have ourselves measured against yet because we\'re still working through it, but we think we can cut costs in all 3 channels that way. We believe, in the Esurance channel, that actually, expenses will go up. And that\'s because, as you know, in that business, the direct channel, you spend a bunch of money in advertising. Last year, I think we spent $190 million in advertising -- $140 million -- $150 million, and we\'ll keep ramping that up as long as we have economic growth. So you look at that business, you look at the loss ratio on what you get, you look at the retention on it. And as long as the present value of that stream is better than your acquisition costs, you keep funding your business. And so that expense ratio will probably stay high for a while. And as that business grows, it will take up more of the overall expense ratio when you look at it on a blended basis, so it will be important for you to look at that -- the 2 of them separately. In the Encompass side, I believe the biggest way we can reduce expenses there is to grow. We just -- we got a bunch of infrastructure sized for more policies than we have, and so as we put on new policies, we don\'t add a lot more fixed expense.
Michael Zaremski - Cr\xc3\xa9dit Suisse AG, Research Division
The Affordable Health Care Act fully takes effect next year. Do you see that having any effect on your auto liability business, positive or negative? That\'s number one. Number two, you said you were -- sort of that you\'re reducing the duration of your bond portfolio. Is that in anticipation of a higher rate of inflation or just relatively narrow spreads?
Thomas J. Wilson
Both good questions, Mike. On the auto liability question, I think it\'s -- what we\'ve been focusing on is what\'s the secondary impact of those law changes. So there\'s nothing really in the law that\'s going to change our cost structure as it speaks today, but remember, we are served by many hospitals and doctors and stuff, so as they seek to maintain their margins and their revenue, they do other things. And if they can\'t do it for the government, then we\'re going to make sure they\'re -- if they\'re doing it for us and for our customers, or the people we\'ve hurt, our customers have heard that it\'s appropriate. So we\'re closely watching that cost shift from the public sector to the private sector to make sure we\'re controlling costs. So you can put processes in place ahead of time. You don\'t have to wait to see it happen. So you can manage your data, you can look at your provider\'s stuff, and so we\'re, on top of trying to make sure from a claim side, we\'re watching to make sure we don\'t -- if the government quits paying a hospital $100, they don\'t decide they\'re going to get the $100 from us. Secondly, then, of course, you\'ve just got to be on top of the pricing on that one and make sure that -- because whatever happens to us will probably happen to other people, and you want to make sure you\'re competitive there. On the bond portfolio, I mean, it wouldn\'t be any surprise to anybody here, interest rates will obviously go up at some point. We\'re not trying to predict them. When I went through the changes we make, we don\'t -- we\'re not trying to pick every top or bottom of the market. We just look at it from a risk-return standpoint, and we said, when you look at a return you get from owning a 10-year bond today, not very good, particularly when you look at the risk, given where interest rates are so low today. So it\'s pure interest rate risk we\'re shedding. We\'re kind of okay on corporate credit. We made a bunch of money on corporate credit. Our spreads are still decent. They\'re not as low as they were in the heyday when there was so much money floating around, but we think they\'re about right, maybe they could come down a little bit. So we\'re trying to shed that interest rate risk, and at the same time, maintain corporate risk because we do have to find a return on the portfolio since it\'s getting reasonably difficult these days with interest rates so low. So -- but what you\'ll see, Mike, and what you\'ll be able to see in our numbers, we\'ll take capital gains, and that will mean we\'ll get lower operating income in the future, and we\'re doing that on purpose. I\'m not going to be a slave to some external measure of operating earnings if it\'s a bad idea for the shareholders, so we\'re doing what\'s right.
Okay, thank you.
Copyright policy: 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts, please contact us at: 
