AbbVie Inc. (NYSE:
Barclays Healthcare Conference Call
March 12, 2015 9:00 AM ET
Executives
Rick Gonzalez \xe2\x80\x93 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Michael Severino \xe2\x80\x93 Executive Vice President, Research and Development and Chief Scientific Officer
Bill Chase \xe2\x80\x93 Chief Financial Officer
Analysts
Mark Purcell \xe2\x80\x93 Barclays
Mark Purcell
Great, good morning everyone. My name is Mark Purcell. I cover pharmaceuticals here at Barclays. It gives me great pleasure to introduce AbbVie. I have a full suite here. I have Rick Gonzalez, the CEO and Chairman; Bill Chase, the CFO; Michael Severino who is the CSO; and then Larry Peepo, who I\'m sure you all know is the head of IR. So I\'ve been asked so many questions since last week and over the last couple of months on your Company. It\'s probably taking up about 70% of my time on the U.S. Pharma.
So the topics I had in mind were Pharmacyclics deal. And then secondly if we can talk about HUMIRA, lifecycle management, there\'s been an increased focused intensity on biosimilars and debate there. Number three is HCV. So we had Gilead speaking yesterday, we have ESI speaking after the break so there\'s been a lot of chat there. And then also an R&D productivity pipeline, there is increasing interest with all the assets you are reading out this year.
So I don\'t know if Rick you\'d like to start off on the Pharmacyclics deal. One of the first questions I got when I got off the plane last week and I saw the press release was $11 billion, it was $7.5 billion peak, I guess $7 billion globally, can you help me understand sort of breakdown that sales potential and how you get there but start off with the top level and maybe then go to the sales number that you put out on the conference call.
Rick Gonzalez
Sure. Well thank you, Mark. We appreciate you inviting us here. It might be helpful to give the audience a perspective of how we see Pharmacyclics fitting into the overall strategy for what we\'re trying to drive with AbbVie. And I would take you back to when we launched as a new company a little over two years ago. Our objectives at that point we clearly stated that objective was that we would ultimately try to drive, become an innovative biopharmaceutical company that was capable of driving top-tier performance and be able to sustain that performance over the long-term.
And we made a commitment to the investors that we would ultimately go through this period of loss of exclusivity in the first two years of our existing existence and then in 2015 reach this breakout year where we could deliver top-tier performance and sustain that performance. So essentially everything we\'ve done for the Company over those two years has been built around that premise. We\'ve done a lot of work in changing the culture of the organization to be a more innovation-driven organization. We\'ve taken a very talented group from Abbott. It was part of the spinoff and we\'ve added a lot of talent on the outside to supplement our efforts there. Mike Severino is a good example of that kind of talent.
We\'ve worked hard to build a robust pipeline because ultimately that is what is going to fuel our long-term growth. And we drove tremendous performance out of our existing portfolio, certainly HUMIRA was a good example of that and nothing but spectacular performance out of that asset. And I think the investment community viewed that in a positive way. And we obviously delivered a tremendous TSR in the first two years, the number one in our peer group. And so we set this great we set this great foundation for the organization.
We built this very robust pipeline that ultimately can deliver significant growth going forward. We built a biosimilar strategy that we\'ve had in place and we have a lot of confidence in that underpins the fact that HUMIRA will be a durable performing asset for us going forward. And we positioned ourselves well to be able to be able to deliver on that expectation that we set for the Company.
Having said that, we ultimately believe to be able to do that over the long-term we had to continue to drive and create more growth platforms for the business. We obviously have a significant immunology growth platform and I think many people perceive AbbVie or have perceived AbbVie for a long time as the HUMIRA company. And rightfully so, okay it\'s a phenomenal asset, drove tremendous amount of performance, continues to do that and as I said will be a durable asset for us going forward as well from a growth perspective.
But if you look at AbbVie now and particularly post this acquisition, we\'re a very different company. We\'re different in lots of different ways but certainly when you just purely look at the platforms that we have to grow off of and we have a strong immunology platform, we have a strong virology platform and now we have a strong oncology platform that Pharmacyclics and Imbruvica empowered us to basically take our own pipeline and be able to build an ultimate leadership position in the hematological oncology area. And that was a significant part of the strategic benefit of this acquisition although I\'ll talk about some other aspects as well. 
And that combination of our pipeline, the fundamentals in our base business and Pharmacyclics gives us the ability to be able to say we can deliver top-tier performance going forward from a revenue and EPS standpoint out through the end of this decade. And that\'s the position that we wanted to put ourselves in, and I\'m pleased that we have put ourselves in that position. If you look at the Pharmacyclics acquisition specifically I think as you mentioned so there\'s questions about how does it fit, what\'s the value. At a strategic level I think if you look at this particular business it clearly enhances our performance from a revenue growth standpoint from 2015 on.
It\'s financially a very attractive transaction for us from the standpoint of it drives accretion starting in 2017, meaningful accretion of $0.60 per share starting in 2019, growing rapidly to $1 per share in 2021 and so financially it\'s a very attractive asset. It also gives us a tremendous amount of U.S. cash flow. So it gives us the ability to be in a position where we don\'t have to repatriate as much of our offshore cash and gives us that financial benefit. As I said it builds this platform to empower us to have this significant growth platform in oncology which we have been working on with our own pipeline and it allows us to be able to enhance that pipeline.
So a tremendous amount of strategic and financial benefit in the transaction. As it relates to the valuation I will tell you that we value this transaction just like we value every other transaction we\'ve ever done. And we came from an organization that was very acquisitive, Abbott and so it\'s the same model that we used back in Abbott. It starts with \xe2\x80\x93 maybe describe the asset. This is in my opinion a very unique asset. We\'ve been looking for assets ever since we became a public company, this is by far the most attractive asset that we\'ve found.
If you look at Imbruvica in particular you don\'t find very many assets that have a derisked compound, true blockbuster multibillion-dollar opportunity as we\'ve said. We believe we can drive greater than $7 billion worth of revenue for us out of this particular asset and as I said it\'s a derisked asset that ultimately has been proven now in 15,000 patients. It\'s a mechanism that looks to be broadly applicable across B-cell malignancies and potentially even further than that, much like how HUMIRA was extended across the anti-TNF indications and this pipeline in a drug concept and that was very attractive to us.
So when we just purely looked at the asset it was a very attractive asset. Having said that, as we valued it we value it like we valued everything else. Our process is pretty straightforward. We do a model, ultimately as we go through the diligence process we refine that model based on what we see in the diligence. And we come up with what we believe is a maximum value that we\'re willing to pay for the asset. We did nothing different in this transaction. We don\'t bid above that maximum value. We didn\'t in this case. I can tell you a transaction of this size you obviously have to get a fairness opinion. And I will tell you the fairness opinion supported a value that was greater than what we ultimately got the asset for.
So that\'s one aspect of valuation that I think you can think about. I think the second and more meaningful aspect of valuation is this was a competitive bidding process. And we competed against two other well-respected, sophisticated pharmaceutical companies. You know who one of them is. I don\'t know that you know for sure who the other one is. I do know for sure who the other one was. But what I can tell you is in the not-too-distant future there will be the disclosure in the S-4s which will tell you what the bidding process look like. I can tell you with a high level of confidence that what you will see is the difference between the high bid which was obviously us and the low bid was less than $1 billion and it was within 4%. I can tell you on a $21 billion acquisition in a blind bidding process to call it within 4% is pretty hard to do. So to some extent we got a little lucky and I\'m glad we got lucky.
But what that also tells me is the other two players valued this asset very similar to us. That means their model must have been relatively consistent with us which is I think a good validation for the competitive value of this asset. It\'s a very attractive asset and that our number was relatively consistent with what others would have been willing to pay for it. That ultimately gets you to the model and what do you have to believe in the model to be able to get there. What I would describe to you is the following.
We\'ve indicated that we believe it can deliver over $7 billion worth of revenue to us between now and 2026 which is where you built our forecast out. If you compare that the consensus models not many consensus models go out over that period of time, so you can\'t necessarily directly correlate it. I would say we\'re a little higher than the mean in the years that we project. But if you look at the upper end of consensus like the Deutsche Bank model which goes out, we\'re very consistent with that model. And so it\'s bracketed between the mean and the upper end of the consensus model. But there are essentially four categories of growth that we\'ve built into our model.
The first category is expansion and market penetration within the areas that Imbruvica is already approved which are four indications, right? 17p deletion in CLL, relapsed/refractory CLL, Waldenstrom and relapsed/refractory mantle cell. We\'ve assumed that we will achieve peak market share positions in those categories over that 10-year period, it sounds about 65% which I wouldn\'t describe as heroic. That drives about 25% of the overall growth across that forecast. The second category is moving to frontline in certain conditions, so first-line CLL and-first line mantle cell. We rate that as a very high probability of success based on everything we\'ve seen about the asset and how it performs from an efficacy and a safety and a tolerability standpoint. That drives about 40% of the overall growth.
So between those two you\'re already at about 65% or a north of 65%. And again we assumed about 60% or 65% peak market share penetration within those categories over that 10-year period. The third is expanding into other hematological malignancies. So as an example refractory and relapsed NHL, refractory and relapsed in first-line diffuse B-cell lymphoma and some use in multiple myeloma. Now there we have risk-adjusted those areas anywhere between 30% and 75% but that drives about 20% of the overall value. Then finally there\'s one last category in the model that basically is moving outside of hematological malignancies.
So graft versus host disease which we think is a relatively high probability of success and then solid tumors which frankly we\'ve risk-adjusted dramatically at about 85% in total. Certainly if that hits in any meaningful way that\'s a huge upside to what we\'ve assumed but that generates 10% or less of the overall forecast. So as we step back and we look at that and we validated it we have a high level of confidence that that\'s a very deliverable forecast. We didn\'t build in any revenue for autoimmune. That could be an upside if ultimately it works there.
We did not build any incremental benefit into our own pipeline which we believe it will be able to deliver enhanced performance in 199 in combination therapy or in sequential therapy which we believe is an important opportunity for us to be able to explore. We didn\'t build in any benefit associated with other kinds of benefit that could provide for AbbVie. So as we look at it we think it\'s a very achievable model and it has a great return and we\'re pleased that we were able to win this
Mark Purcell
A pretty comprehensive, and just on that last point I guess one of the questions I\'ve had is you\'ve got ABT-109, now Imbruvica and then it\'s the IPI-145 asset, the delta gamma I had questions, could there be on FTC issue owning all three? The other way round is it could be a huge opportunity from as you said a sequential or combination approach. So could you expand on that and help me understand how the franchise now fits together?
Rick Gonzalez
I\'ll take a quick stab and then I\'ll probably ask Mike to maybe elaborate in more detail. We view these as complementary products, not competitive products. And we do view that there\'s an opportunity to have both either sequential therapy or combination therapy. So we view them as synergistic. And that was another thing that was very attractive about this opportunity. So maybe Mike, you can elaborate in more detail.
Michael Severino
Sure, each of these assets is very attractive. Rick talked about Imbruvica and the very strong efficacy signals we\'ve seen across a wide range of hematological malignancies. Similarly we feel good about 199, we\xe2\x80\x99ve seen very impressive data and our very high level of confidence in that molecule continues to grow the more and more we see. In just a few months we\'ll see data 17p del CLL. We also have data that are maturing in refractory/relapsed CLL outside of 17p del and we believe that those data can form the basis of a submission later on this year and we\'re continuing to move forward on all fronts with that program as well.
Similarly duvelisib gives us another attractive mechanism to get at this very large and heterogeneous set of disorders than a different driver mutation in them. So overall we feel good about that portfolio and particularly we feel good about the manner in which we believe these mechanisms complement each other. So for example there\'s very good reason to believe that Imbruvica and 199 could have complementary cell killing based on the mechanisms of action.
And that opens up a very real possibility for combination therapy. We think that combination therapy holds real promise to drive deeper and more sustained responses, so MRD responses and the like, the sorts of responses that will lead to long-term good outcomes. In clinical study in patients with CLL who would receive intensive chemotherapy regimens, fludarabine and Cytoxan containing regimens for example, we believe we can drive very deep responses and perhaps reduce dependency on those toxic older chemotherapy regimens over time. And similarly in other settings in NHL, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, one can easily contemplate using combination therapy to drive deep responses in patients who would otherwise be treated with CHOP-based regimens and other things that are very toxic.
And in the long-term we think that that will lead to better outcomes overall. So of course we have to run the clinical studies to show that but we\'re committed to doing that. After the close we\'ll roll up our sleeves and get to that work. There\'s also good complementarity in other areas. So we haven\'t talked a lot about myeloma but we have in partnership with BMS elotuzumab and we\'ll be seeing data soon on that first half of this year. And we feel good about that mechanism overall. Both 199 and Imbruvica have a potential application to myeloma. 
And that\'s something that\'s being studied in early phase trials. We have other mechanisms beyond that, so we have the ability to go after CS1, ADC for example, a myeloma specific antigen. Same molecular target as with elotuzumab with a more potent killing mechanism perhaps. And in aggregate we think that that portfolio has a real promise for complementarity. So we see a good fit for these assets across the board we also for potential sequential therapy in a number of these settings because one wouldn\xe2\x80\x99t anticipate these mechanisms to be cross resistant. So in more indolent settings where treat to progression might be the paradigm for example you can get long-term disease control through the sequential use of mechanisms that are complementary in the ways that I\'ve described. 
Overall we feel that the full set of molecules that we have fit very well together, they\'re complementary and they\'re going to drive improved patient outcomes over time. And we\'re eager to run these studies to prove that.
Mark Purcell
Okay, thank you. And Bill, on the finance side is there anything to add because I\'ve been asked about the accounting, the absorption of cost, the potential then to invest in the assets after their consolidation? I was asked how the ABT-109 relationship works with Roche. So this deal has spawned a number of questions about how the accounting works and the costs and what\'s taken out and what the investment phase is going to be as well.
Bill Chase
Yes so I mean the accounting is fairly straightforward in these partnerships. Typically what you\'ll see is and in the case of Pharmacyclics this is the case, we will book the US sales and we will transfer a part of the U.S. profit to our partner via a charge above gross margin. Likewise ex-US they book sales and they transfer our piece back and we book that into our sales. And I think there\'s a lot of confusion of how do you model this. What we\'ve been telling people is to simplify it, we\'ve said the incremental sales in AbbVie\'s book will be greater than $7 billion. The operating margin I think you can model approaching 50% and that gets you pretty much how to see the profit contribution of this asset.
In terms of overall financing and balance sheet capacity, Moody\'s is still currently weighing in on what they think our overall rating is but we\'re pretty confident when you looked at our pre-deal credit metrics we were a very, very strong Baa1. We generate very robust cash flow and a significantly increasing EBITDA even without this acquisition. Obviously this being a growth asset you pile it right on top. So we think that there\'s a high likelihood, again I don\'t want to speak for Moody\'s but we think there\'s a high likelihood, we may retain the Baa1, at least that\'s what our math would suggest. That gives us deal capacity even at that to do other things, tuck-in acquisitions in the short-term and bigger opportunities in 2016 and 2017 if they present themselves.
Mark Purcell
Okay. That\xe2\x80\x99s clear.
Rick Gonzalez 
Having said that, though, what I would say is we\'ve gotten some questions from investors is this is a significant acquisition for us. And so you shouldn\'t assume we\'re going to turn around and do another $20 billion acquisition. I think we will go back more towards the direction that we had historically operated in where we\'re looking for individual assets or tuck-in kinds of acquisitions. They\'ll be in the areas that we\'ve continued to focus on, immunology, oncology, virology, hepatology are all areas of high interest for us. So that\'s what you should expect to see going forward from us for some period of time.
Mark Purcell
Sure, thank you. I bet this is probably the first AbbVie presentation 21 minutes in we haven\'t mentioned HUMIRA or had a quick HUMIRA question anyway. So I know you made a couple of comments on the conference call last week. This been a lot of speculation given people are triangulating Norwegian price reductions on Remicade which are quite country-specific and Neupogen being approved by FDA and the number of companies coming forward and filing HUMIRA and Enbrel and other TNF biosimilars over the next 12 months.
So I don\'t know what you can say and what you can say and if you can give a flavor, I think you said there might be more disclosure towards the end of the year, but people have looked at patents that suggest room temperature stable formulations, less injection site reactions, higher doses, needle-less devices. Larry and I were exchanging e-mails and there\'s companies like Zogenix that I guess have come to you with a device saying can we do a needle-less device with you. And there\'s also companies working on oral formulations of HUMIRA. Is there anything you can say or can you just give us a timeframe in terms of when we might have more visibility on what\'s obviously still an important asset?
Rick Gonzalez
Right. Well that was a very broad question, so let me try to cover it from the perspective of there has been a lot of news on biosimilars both from the European front as well as the approval of filgrastim and other activity. I\'d say as we look at everything that we\'ve seen it\'s all consistent with what we would have expected and what we plan for. So there\'s nothing new. I\'d also say that I think a lot of the feedback coming out of Europe is being interpreted in a way that I would say is inconsistent with the data that we track. We obviously track biosimilar activity in Europe very carefully with the Remicade biosimilar. I mean I\'ll give you an example.
So if you take the aggregate 11 or 12 countries that the Remicade biosimilar has been in, I think the longest period of time is Korea, probably close to two years and you look at the market share penetration that they\'ve been able to achieve and you look at HUMIRA performance both in aggregate across those markets or in any individual country, HUMIRA performance has continued to be strong. We haven\'t lost patients here and we\'ve actually grown constant revenue share. So it\'s not having any impact other than what we would have expected within those countries. I\'d say the way the biosimilar share is behaving even in a country like Korea, it\'s consistent with what we would have expected and it\'s not a dramatic impact in the marketplace. 
So from a discounting standpoint I\'d say it\'s also fairly consistent with what we have expected. So I don\'t think the dynamics in Europe even though there has been a lot more visibility to them \xe2\x80\x93 well I know they\'re not alarming to us and I don\'t think they should be alarming to anyone else. So the strategy that we put in place is still basically the strategy that we\'re executing and it has four elements to it. Certainly there is an IP strategy. We\'ve built a very robust set of IP and we\'ve said very publicly that we intend to defend that IP if and when an applicant comes and files. And we will go through the process as soon as that happens and we\'ll obviously determine if that applicant infringes any of our patents and then we will enforce our patents and so that will be one aspect of the strategy. 
The second is that we were working on aspects to differentiate HUMIRA. One of them was a formulation change. We\'ve now submitted that formulation change. There are device changes that we\'ve been working on as well. From a competitive standpoint at least right now I\'m not going to elaborate more detail. We need to go through the regulatory process and in respect to the regulatory agencies we\'re not going to talk about what we anticipate that will look like until we\'ve gone through that process. And then obviously there\'s a commercial strategy that underpins how we plan on reacting in a biosimilar world and then there\'s our pipeline. We\'ve been working on a number of different assets in our pipeline to expand and grow our immunology franchise.
Those are advancing nicely. There are small molecules, there are DVDs and there are biologics in that and it will fit across the broad spectrum of indications. So I think the strategy is working the way we anticipated. I think you will see more detail as we get towards the middle to we get towards the middle to the end of this year because I think it is likely that someone will file and so the IP strategy will start to play out in a more public way and we need to wait for that to happen. And as we get through the regulatory process we can talk in more detail about the formulation. So we obviously have confidence we\'ve got a lot on this strategy in how we believe we will defend and continue to grow our immunology franchise.
Mark Purcell
Great. I promise to focus very quickly on HCV, we\'ve been following the AlphaImpactRx data, in genotype one patients you seem to be taking about 18% share according to their data. Obviously there\'s sort of a cloak of invisibility here on the IMS side. So I just wondered if 18% is roughly the share you thought you were achieving in genotype one given that maybe the Company is not picking up some of the SI contracts, national formulary and things that may not be reflected in their data set. So just a thought from there and Gilead yesterday there was chat about the gross to net. They put a number out there, it sounds like it\'s not going to be as significant a discount but just maybe comment on performance share and maybe on the discounting side as well.
Rick Gonzalez
Well as we said in our fourth-quarter earnings call we believe this will be a very meaningful asset for us and we believe that it will achieve a running rate in excess of $3 billion. I\'d say we\'re tracking against that. That\'s a global number obviously that we\'ve been talking about. When we look at our contracting access strategy in the US between those that we\'ve achieved in the exclusive position and a parody position and then obviously the disadvantaged position where Gilead has achieved an exclusive position. That is tracking within a range of what we would have expected to be able to achieve the market share.
It\'s still a little too early to do the final projection on market share because remember within each one of the segments you have different ramps and you have different expectations. In an exclusive it\'s highly compliant like an ESI, you\'re going to get a much more rapid ramp to the maximum level of market share of new patients. In one that\'s less compliant that ramp will be slower because you have to work harder at it to be able to get it there. And they were dated over a period of time so we\'re still seeing exclusive accounts come on, as an example New York Medicaid announced that they selected us exclusively here recently.
So it is tracking in a direction that we achieved a level of market share that we would have expected. The other thing I\'d say is there\'s a tremendous amount of focus from the investment community around the U.S. and it\'s because you have a lot of visibility in the US here. But the international market\'s a very significant market. One of the things that has happened is as we have expanded access in HCV there are significantly more patients being treated now, both in the U.S. but also in the international markets and in particular in the European markets.
So it\'s that whole blend that will drive the entire performance of the business and so we\'ve said all along this is a strategically important area for us that we\'re investing long-term in. We expect the VIEKIRA PAK to be able to establish a meaningful position in the marketplace. We believe it will do that, we\'re confident it will do that. And then that creates a platform for us to be able to build upon it with our next-generation asset which we\'re getting data on now. And we\'re confident in what that data looks like that that will be an even more competitive asset that we can bring to the marketplace. And part of our contracting strategy contemplated that.
Mark Purcell
That\'s great. We\'re following ex-US very carefully and see that there\'s a huge opportunity. Just in the last few moments on the pipeline side when I look through the presentation there\'s a lot of moving parts this year. If you were to pick out maybe two or three assets for us to keep an eye on the reporting data that might be Phase 2 data and might be from the DVD platform which is I guess hasn\'t been that [indiscernible] it might be one of the Phase 3 assets, you mentioned myeloma already, what kind of two or three assets do you feel are the most important to keep an eye on that maybe people have not focused on so much yet?
Michael Severino
Certainly. It\'s going to be a big year for the pipeline in 2015 for AbbVie. We\'ve seen very nice maturation on many fronts really across the board. We talked about hematologic malignancies just a few minutes ago. We\'re going to see important data there for both 199, the data sets for Imbruvica. We\'ll continue to mature and we\'ll be reporting out some data later on this year as well. And there are a number of other areas we\'re making very good progress. Outside of hematologic malignancies and oncology we are continuing to advance a number of important molecules.
We\'ve got veliparib across a wide range of solid tumors and ABT-414 which is our antibody-drug conjugate in glioblastoma multiforma, the most aggressive and unfortunately the most common form of primary brain cancer continues to advance in those data and will continue to mature over the course of the year. And then of course as I mentioned before in partnership with BMS we\'ll be seeing data from elotuzumab and refractory/relapsed myeloma in the first half of this year. So that\'s a lot of activity on the oncology front. In virology we\'re making great progress with next-generation hep C. And those data the Phase 2b program will mature over the course of this year. 
We\'re not in a position to report that yet externally but we see the data as it accrues and it looks very good to us. We\'re moving that program forward very rapidly. We\'ve talked about elagolix. We have announced top-line data from the first Phase 3 study there that study is ongoing. There\'s a blinded extension and there\'s a second study. That data set will mature over time but as we said in our press release a few months ago we have a positive study. We had co-primary endpoints. We hit both co-primary endpoints. We hit both co-primary endpoints with both doses that were in that study.
So we feel very good about that as well. There will be pipeline advancements across the board in other areas as well, in neurosciences. We expect to file daclizumab in the first half of this year, so that\'s in the very near future. I think you\'ll be hearing more about that. And R&D efforts are shaping up nicely really across the board. So it\'s going to be a big year I think you\'ll be hearing a lot from us over the course of this year.
Mark Purcell
That will keep us all busy.
Rick Gonzalez 
One of the nice things is you look at our late-stage pipeline and frankly what you want to see in a late-stage pipeline is as we see the pivotal data starting to play out it is giving us even more confidence that these assets are derisked. You look at the efficacy of daclizumab is an example. That is very clear. You look at the profile of what we\'ve seen in elagolix. It\'s the profile we were looking for. If you look at 199, spectacular complete response in MRD negatives. And so as we\'re seeing our late-stage pipeline play out we\'re pleased with the level of confidence that is building towards truly efficacious products that should be able to have a meaningful impact for patients.
Mark Purcell
I think we\'ve run out of time. So Richard, Bill, Michael, Larry, thank you so much for joining us today.
Rick Gonzalez
Thank you so much.
[No Q&A session for this event]
Copyright policy: 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts, please contact us at: 
