Allegion Plc (NYSE:
Imperial Capital Security Investor Conference 
December 10, 2015 10:00 AM ET
Executives
Tom Martineau - IR
Tim Eckersley - Senior Vice President & President of the Americas
Patrick Shannon - Senior Vice President & CFO
Analysts
Unidentified Analyst - 
Operator
We are going to start. This is -- if you stay with me in this room all day. This is essentially the leaders\' room effectively. Every company in this room is effectively the leader in their segment. I am very proud to have Allegion back this year. And we have the guy who runs the most profitable business in the industry. If you are not familiar with Allegion, they are one of the two leaders in locking and access control worldwide. And in North America they certainly are -- they have a dramatic position. Most importantly they are incredibly profitable. People wonder how these companies can sell at these prices in the stock market, how they can be so profitable. You are going to hear why today. We have Tim Eckersley who is the President of the North American business world speak today. We also have Tom Martineau with IR and Pat Shannon who is the CFO of Allegion. And without further due I get to get off the stage because we give these guys time to speak and hear their story.
Tim Eckersley 
So if you spend all day with Jeff you are going to need a hospital stay after that too I would say. So good morning, everybody. My name is Tim Eckersley. I am responsible for the Americas business for a company called Allegion. With me is Tom Martineau who runs our investor relations group. That\'s not IR, Ingersoll Rand but Investor Relations and Patrick Shannon, the CFO of the company. So thanks for having us some while you digest our Safe Harbor. Just a brief word about Ingersoll Rand and Allegion. Prior to December of 2013, we were actually a division of Ingersoll Rand, a large multinational industrial firm. And in December we spun out, December 2013 we spun out of them into a separate publicly traded company called Allegion, traded under the ALLE stock symbol on the New York Stock Exchange. 
A little bit about who we are. So Allegion is a leading provider of securities products where it predominantly a product based business. One of the things that makes us unique from competitors is we are the only person in our space that actually serves both the residential and the commercial markets around the world. We are blessed with a number of strong leading brands in the industry. And in fact in some categories in our product portfolio we actually invented some of the categories. So like an exit device and those kinds of things. As Jeff adequately stated we have industry leading organic growth. We are quite proud of the fact that through the first three quarters of 2015 we are the leading organic growth company in the space and we enjoy very strong margins. We have good cash performance which is a great problem to have and we will talk a little bit about our capital allocation strategies. But that provides us the opportunity to have both balance and flexible approach to the way we allocate our capital in the market place.
So I mentioned that we are a global company. I represent this region called the Americas out of $2.1 billion total in sales in 2014; it represents just over $1.5 billion of that business. We operate in all parts of the region. The strength of our business is in fact in North America. But we are growing and have an acquisitions strategy against the Latin American market place. In 2013, we purchased -- sorry 2014 we purchased the company in Columbia and are now the second largest provider of products and services in Columbia. And we continue our development organically in Mexico and are looking at other markets in Latin American territory for growth opportunities. 
Our business in Europe has been largely a self help margin story for us as we launched the company. We went into 2014 in a money losing situations. So we have been executing a restructuring strategy there that has to do with taking a regional focus and getting focused on those parts of Europe where we believe we can be successful. That strategy and restructuring has been executed very well thus far. Wherein I guess we are probably an inning number six or seven in baseball terms of that. And should be in the neighborhood of between 5% and 7% profitability in Europe as we get through the 2015 timeframe. With the target of 10% overall as we stated in 2014 in our Investor Relations meeting. 
Our Asia Pacific organization in 2014 was roughly $170 million. We recently made an announcement where we are divesting a company called Bocom in China which is a security integration company predominantly in video and video surveillance. So with that divesture our going forward concern in Asia Pacific will be approximately $100 million in size with the strength in Australia, New Zealand market and then above smattering of smaller businesses through other countries in Asia Pacific.
We operate as a household brand so Allegion is our brand name on our stock symbol as well as our company. But you would know us and interact with us everyday through our strategic brands of LCN, Schlage, Von Duprin, CISA and interflex. So as I said earlier these brands represent some of the strongest if not the strongest in the industry. The Von Duprin exit device a established category following a fire in theatre in Chicago in the early 1900 when some large number of people were killed in a fire, couldn\'t get out of the building and a couple of entrepreneurs got together and came with the concept of an exit device. That is now core to the safety and security strategy and codes in the market place on a commercial side. Schlage obviously in a locking space created some of the early start in the mechanical locking world. And is now one of if not the leader in electronic locking solutions in both the residential and the commercial space. And then CISA similar reputation in Europe where in particularly in Italy they represent the number one brand in their business. So we are fairly young company. We just celebrated our second birthday as a company but we have a long history and long heritage of good strong products strength, quality and business reputation. 
So what is it that we do? We secure the door through things like exit devices and mechanical lock key systems. Perhaps one of the most interesting things that are going on in the market place today is the emergence, significant emergence of electronics into these capabilities in the commercial world. The early days of electronics were about reader on the door and either an electric strike or mag lock. More and more on going forward basis those things are being integrated into platforms that hang on the door in an electronic lock which has both the intelligence and the reader technology in order to represent or present a credential of some kind whether that\'s a mobile credential or a physical access control card. And provide the opening solution that\'s required. We also play in the reader and credential space. Electric strike doors and frames all these stuffs seems rather mundane and yet when you are constructing a new facility whether it\'s a school or hospital or a building like this, there are critical safety and security codes that need to be met. We are expert at that. We have -- we deploy or employ over a 150 spec riders who are expert at this code and understand how these products get apply in a meaningful and appropriate way to meet the requirements of the code standards that exist in the market place.
We also do a lot of door control activities. So a closer LCN closer on the top of the door would allow that door to close in a smooth and efficient way. We also have automatic operators and things like coordinators that allow panel or two panel doors to close in an efficient and effective way. We do a lot of work in protecting the door with simple things like kick plates but also door pulls. And then a growing piece of our portfolio is something we would call portable security. Think about bike locks and locks to secure your motor vehicle like a motorcycle or some scooter or that kind of thing. We play there in the space in the specialty market. So you would find our kryptonite brand in many of the leading bike shops around the country in the portable security space.
So I wanted to spend a few minutes talking about something that we are really proud about at Allegion. Over the last two years with the launch of our new company we become a leader in the market place in this thing called IoT or Internet of Things. We feel like we play a unique role in defining the future of what these will be in the safety and security space. We have a unique position in the market place with a very strong leadership position in the residential world combined with an equally strong position in the commercial space. We see more and more applications where those things are coming together. We are the prevalent point of entry into homes. We actually exist in over 50 million homes in the United States alone. We are projected to sell over a million electronic locks in the residential space this year alone which is almost doubled what we did in 2014. So very aggressive and rapid growth in the electronic locking space. In the multifamily and commercial space where you see a facility many of them here in New York where you have a commercial facility on the bottom floor or top or bottom two floors and then apartment buildings above. You need a CMOS access solution that provides you access not only to the building but then also to your apartment that\'s in that building. We have the ability, unique ability to actually provide that in the market place. 
We believe our position here is one that is differentiated predominantly based on our open standard protocol. So we want to be the best security product in the market place regardless of the access control solution that you selected or regardless of the home automation platform that is part of your desired result .We want to be the standard open platform to provide support to all elements of the market place. 
In November of this year, so just 45 days ago we actually began shipping a product called Schlage Sense is the newest in our family of products on the residential side. Starting within a unconnected touch screen dead ball called Schlage Touch, our Schlage connect product which was launched earlier this year is the access control locking platform of choice for many of the integrators that are represented at this industry forum. It provides end users with the ability to integrate with their either ADT weave into our alarm.com solution. And then the newest offering here Schlage Sense the first and only currently available security lock product that is integrated with Apple\'s home kit solutions. So if we are familiar with the home automation environment, you now see a lot of the what we would call the mega tech starting to play a significant role in consolidating a rather fragmented market place and becoming the leaders in driving those solutions and our product called Schlage Sense is the first product in the market place that is tightly integrated with that Apple home kit. You will see it evolving over time to support standards that are developed by players like Google and Samsung and others as we get deeper into the market place. But we are really quite proud of this. It is available in Apple\'s stores and home depots and those all of the country. 
So as a company our key strategic approach is expanding in core markets. So we have a number of legacy strength that allows us the ability to grow one of the things we are investing in very heavily right now is channel management. There is a renovation retrofit market place that exists that has largely been not a part of our focus and we have been investing in both products and people on the street to grow our capabilities in that area. Also in this residential space driving this electronic solution. The unique thing about electronics in the resi space is you now starting to see the early stages and the first stage of homeowners actually pulling off locks of their front door that were working perfectly fine with the key and saying this electronic value proposition is interesting to me and I want to take advantage of that. So now you no longer only relegated to a repair and replace market but you have -- now you have upgraded, a viable upgrade market in the residential space. It really important innovation. Our innovation activities in new and existing product categories. We\'ve talked about growth in electronics. So far through the third quarter of 2015, our electronics business globally is growing at a pace of 30% plus. So very rapid growth whether that is in the residential electronic locks, commercial electronic locks, all of our electronic portfolios are credential and readers, all growing at a pace that outpaces the current market growth in the industry. And we are really pleased with that. 
With our strong cash flow generation we are chasing opportunistic acquisitions. I think I mentioned previously we\'ve done seven deals since the launch of the company in December of 2013. And we will talk more about how we are doing that but we are taking a very disciplined approach to that. Enterprise excellence is a core part of who we are, driving waste out of the organization, waste of the value streams and the supply chain that exist in the industry and driving more meaningful customer relationships trying to drive -- the ability to actually do -- be easier to do business with. And then last but certainly not least our focus on growth in emerging markets. In the Americas that mean Latin America, Mexico, Brazil and other parts of the Latin American market place that represent unique growth opportunities for our company. We are also expanding and investing in places like South Korea where we made an investment earlier this year for an electronic -- lock residential electronic lock business. So our key strategies around expanding core markets, innovation, opportunistic acquisitions, enterprise excellences, growth in the emerging market, form the foundation of who we are as a business and where we spend our time, energy and investment dollars. 
I talked earlier about our focus in balanced, flexible capital allocation approach. We generate a lot of cash in our business. Our targeted objective is to be between 2.75x and 3.25x debt to EBITDA ratio. We are a little bit north of that number now based on some acquisitions that we did in third quarter. But we expect with our strong cash flow generation we will drive that back down to be within the range in the near term. Our organic growth investments have been in this area accelerating our product development process and expanding our channel capabilities that I talked about earlier. 
On the M&A side, we will talk more about this but it has been predominantly is our product to market expansion opportunities. And here we are taking a disciplined approach to this. We\'ve actually walked away from more acquisitions than we\'ve done since the start of our company. So we are not just out in buying spree to try to grow top line growth. These are very organized and careful disciplined decision making processes that we go through. And then we also executing a shareholder distribution of strategy which has quarterly dividend that we just recently announced for fourth quarter. And we are doing share repurchases largely focused on keeping the share dilution effects of management incentives and things in check but we continue to do that. And we\'ve done over a just about $80 million of share repurchases since the start of the company. 
Our organic investments are new product development, channel management and infrastructure. We\'ve made significant investments in our tax strategy which is come down from about 35% in the inception of the business down in the neighborhood of 20%, where the long term plan is for us to sustain. All these are focused on accelerating our revenue growth and reducing our cost structure. As I said if you look at our results through the first three quarters of 2015, you will find that we are growing at an accelerated pace above the market and our competition. 
Our M&A platforms are around emerging markets, emerging technologies and expanding our product portfolio, adding pieces to our portfolio that leverage the strengths of our business. An example of this would be the acquisition of Zero International earlier this year, a relatively small, tremendously unexciting weather stripping and threshold business. But it fits very nicely and tucks very nicely into our demand creation specification new construction market in the commercial side. So our sales people know how to sell, our spec riders know how to spec it and our customers already buy it. And so it\'s just a matter of them bringing into the portfolio and then using the strength of our channel presence to actually accelerate the growth of that. 
We look for businesses that have strong business and market fundamentals. We target companies like Simons Voss in Germany that have leadership market positions and the ability to scale globally. And that offers us either clear top line growth synergies, opportunities or cost synergies. And we are focusing on a return on invested capital greater than 12% over the three year period. 
Some examples of recent acquisitions Simons Voss that I talked about, an e-cylinder company in Germany the leading e-cylinder provider in the German market. They have opportunities for growth and expansion in e- cylinders in Europe. And in addition they also give us opportunities around miniaturization of electronics and battery power management technologies that we believe we can bring into e-lock products around the world. AXA was a natural extension of kryptonite business. They are predominantly a European based high end OEM provider of portable security products to the bike industry. And then I mentioned Milre who is a residential e-lock business in South Korea that where the penetration on residential e-locks is approaching 50% which is the position where we think ultimately the global market will eventually evolved to.
I talked a lot about our cash generation. And this is one of the strengths of our business is that we\'ve been able to maintain a consistent EBITDA margin performance through the fits and starts to the market place. And you can see that over the last 15 years we have been able to maintain a margin position, market leading margin position 300 basis points better than anybody else in the industry through downturns in the market place and upticks in the market place and we think we are positioned to leverage very aggressively as the business moves forward. 
We generate a lot of cash. Last year 2014 about 111% of our net earnings in free cash flow. 2015 will be a little bit less than 100% target but on a long-term basis, we expect to generate approximately 100% of our earnings in free cash flow that then would be deployed into our capital allocation strategy. 
So in summary, we are executing our strategy, delivering on our commitments, really proud about the fact we\'ve had seven quarters of meeting or exceeding expectations of industry, that\'s not an easy task to do for those who you are responsible for public companies. We are performing at a high level and somewhat recovering markets. We are executing against an M&A strategy. We think it is important to our growth long term delivering on organic revenue, exceeding the market expectations and the market performance. We are continued to invest in exciting new platforms like or e-lock platforms in both commercial and electronics. We are driving the European transformation that we laid out in the early stages of 2014. And we continue to generate a high level of cash, conversion performance that can be used for our capital allocation approach.
So with that I think I have about three minutes, three and half minutes for any questions the audiences may have. 
Operator 
[Operator Instructions]
Unidentified Analyst
[Question Inaudible]
Tim Eckersley
Yes. So how long will the transition from key-to-key list take and it is an interesting question. I think you have to separate that between the commercial world and the residential world. On the residential world, we are actually seeing it accelerate. I talked about Schlage Touch lock, that\'s a product that actually doesn\'t even come with the cylinder. So there is no key. And I think we see consumers adopting that strategy in a very aggressive pace. Still penetration is relatively low overall. So there is a plenty of opportunity for growth. But we definitely see the adoption going pretty aggressively. In the commercial world, I think it is a little bit different. I think keys are probably going to be a long-term part of a commercial space for many, many years to come. I think it\'s an industry that actually moves very slowly. If you think about the businesses that all of us collectively have in the commercial side, a lot of the electronic adoption has been the perimeter side of building, and we are just now getting to start penetrating the interior buildings. And that\'s largely driven by the complexity of the solutions that are out there as well as the cost. I think one of the things we are trying to drive is a reduction in the cost associated with penetrating buildings deeper and putting electronics on doors, bringing wireless products, reliable wireless products, so you are not running power to doors. Simplifying the access control connectivity using web based techniques and things like that. All of those things are helping to accelerate the growth of those systems. But it is slow and the adoption accelerating much faster in the residential side. 
Unidentified Analyst
[Question Inaudible]
Tim Eckersley 
Yes. So the question is does Simons Voss represent some sort of foundational component of the European market. I don\'t think we think of it that way. We\'ve got a good strong core business that is approaching $400 million without Simons Voss is part of the portfolio that is now more stable addressing markets that we believe we can lead in and is offering us good investment returns for investing dollars with our restructuring efforts. I think Simons Voss represents a significant position in the electronics space for us. So we\'ve had electronic products in European market place for some time but I think Simons Voss represents the best opportunity we have to gain more scale in that space and compete with some of our larger competitors in that market place. 
Unidentified Analyst
[Question Inaudible]
Tim Eckersley 
Well, I\'d say I have 23 seconds left but are there any other questions? Thanks for your time today. We appreciate it. 
Copyright policy: 
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S CONFERENCE CALL, CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION, AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS. IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY\'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts, please contact us at: 
